[Music]
now it happened when Saul had returned
from following the Philistines that it
was told him take note David is in the
wilderness of Engedi
then Saul took 3,000 chosen men from all
Israel and went to seek David and his
men on the rocks of the wild goats so he
came to the sheepfolds by the road where
there was a cave and saul went in to
attend to his needs David and his men
was staying in the recesses of the cave
then the man of David said to him this
is the day of which the Lord said to you
behold I will deliver your enemy into
your hand that you may do to him as it
seems good to you and David arose and
secretly cut off a corner of Saul's robe
now it happened afterward that David's
heart troubled him because he had cut
Saul's robe and he said to his men the
Lord forbid that I should do this thing
to my master the Lord's anointed to
stretch out my hand against him seeing
he is the anointed of the Lord
so David restrained his servants with
these words and did not allow them to
rise against Saul and Saul got up from
the cave and went on his way
[Music]
David also arose afterward went out of
the cave and called out to Saul my lord
the King and when Saul looked behind him
David stooped with his face to the earth
and bowed down why do you listen to the
words of men who would say indeed David
seeks your harm look this day your eyes
have seen that the Lord delivered you
today into my hand in the cave and
someone urged me to kill you but my I
spared you and I said I will not stretch
out my hand against my Lord for he is
the Lord's anointed moreover my father
see yes see the corner of your robe in
my hand for in that I cut off the corner
of your robe and did not kill you no and
see that there is neither evil nor
rebellion in my hand and I have not
sinned against you yet you hunt of my
life to take it
let the Lord judge between you and me
and let the Lord avenge me on you but my
hand shall not be against you as the
proverb of the Ancients says wickedness
proceeds from the wicked but my hand
shall not be against you after whom as
the king of Israel come out whom do you
pursue a dead dog a flea therefore let
the Lord be judged and judged between
you and me and see and plead my case and
deliver me out of your hand so it was
when David had finished speaking these
words to Saul that saul said is this
your voice my son
even and soul lifted up his voice and
wept oh you are more righteous than I
for you have rewarded me with good well
as I have rewarded you with evil and you
have shown this day how you have dealt
well with me when the Lord delivered me
into your hand you did not kill me but
if a man finds his enemy will he let him
get away safely therefore may the Lord
reward you with good for what you have
done to me this day and now I know
indeed that you shall surely be king and
that the kingdom of Israel shall be
established in your hand
therefore swear now to me by the Lord
that you will not cut off my descendants
after me and that you will not destroy
my name from my father's house so David
swore to Saul and Saul went home but
David and his men went up to the
stronger
[Music]
you